# Neither Gods, nor Emperors, nor Heroes

作者的话：“这篇断片式的文字凑成的东西我写了很久了，倒不是字数多，而是每次都只写上一点点，只有在夜深人静突然有想法的时候写上两句，或者有时躺在床上想起一些就写一点，有时走着走着想起一些就写在纸上然后记下来改写成书面文，总之不是什么了不起的东西，但是拖了很久，直到昨天才整理成文。同时谢谢我的编辑的耐心等待和发稿人员的努力。”

# Neither Gods, nor Emperors, nor Heroes

## 文 / [谢熊猫](http://panda.n2studio.org/)

No one will grant us deliverance, neither Gods**,** nor Emperors, nor Heroes. **God** It all started on that night when I walked past City Harvest Church at 3am. A magnificent building few will be too arrogant to neglect. This modern temple, exhibiting a topographically incomprehensible styli with its front facade clad with titanium, echoing with the colossal stainless steel crucifix standing beside it, is breathtaking, literally. The crucifix, said to be the largest of its kind in the world, is awe-strikingly beautiful. Oh yes, the titanium plated facade, like King Solomon's temple in Mount Moriah overlaid by gold, demonstrates the wealth and prosperity of this church, and maybe in their own perspectives, the blessings from their Father in Heaven. I would be glad to pay a visit and talk to the people there if not for the fact that it was 3am in the morning, but more importantly if not that I already knew the dirt and filth under its glamorous prima facie. There were, after all, people inside the premise even at 3am------ the security guards. However, it was not the security guards that disgusted me; it was the plate at the church's back door bearing the words "protected by CISCO security system". To me it is not only a deterrent of trespassing but rather a banner of self-professing godlessness. Thy wrathful God Yahweh is not enough of a protection that thou hast to dwell into this worldliness? Or do you simply lack enough faith in the Omnipotent? Maybe look again at the world's largest column-free auditorium, the world class fountain, and the sound console that dwarves that of any world class concert hall, the answer is remote from dubious. You have been indulging yourselves in this gospel of material prosperity for too long, you have forgotten that blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Cry to your false prophet all you want, and keep your hypocrisy as you keep your prosperity. Have your time and when the day comes that you are delivered to a higher judgment, you will get what you deserve. And when you finally shout for help, I will look down from my own purgatory and whisper, "not this time my friend, not this time". Sow the wind and you shall reap the whirlwind. How much evil has been imposed in the name of holiness under the hood of righteousness and the disguise of inquisitorial justice? You grow up being told there is justice, and, God forbid, one day you will learn that the only real justice is in your own hands. It is like living through the Book of Job for one's entire life. Regardless of your heavenly faith or earthly well-being, it is a game between God and Sathanas. Unfortunately, Sathanas is in control. Indeed, Sathanas has claimed even the brightest humanity has to offer. He saw the bright young man named John Calvin rebelled as a heretic against Roman Catholicism, endured sufferings and prosecutions to finally rise to the position where he could made the world a holier place. All these, just so that he could exercise an evil of no less cruelty or hypocrisy than that of the Roman Catholics. Most people did not know what to say, and those who did, the humanists, did not dare to stand up and fight the new dictatorship. Even the noble and wise Montaigne only offered his eloquence. It was Sebastian Castellio, a man who had already passed his apex years, who had to sacrifices his life in order to teach the rest of the world the simple truth that one must not be forced to accept a conviction for conviction is free. Sebastian Castellio, the heretic, taught us the simple principle of tolerance, one thing that was already told by the young man from Nazareth more than one millennium ago. How pathetic and pitiful of John Calvin, for betraying his own righteous affectation and became the very daemon he rebelled against! Kierkegaard educated us about the knight of faith, which only added to the frustration that we are all in fact, only, knights of infinite resignation. **Emperor** Open any sensible newspaper, you will see there is a suicide bombing somewhere, people inciting conflicts in already sensitive areas, peace talks break down, invasion of personal freedom, poverty affecting children's lives, and etc. What is really horrifying is we are no longer horrified by these things. If there is an omniscient God watching a child dies of starvation or easily curable disease every three seconds, He obviously does not care about human suffering. If there is an omnibenevolent God who allows people to forget or to remain ignorant at the first place about Aung San Suu Kyi, and the Aung San Suu Kyis around the world, He apparently does not have the proper sense of justice. If there is an omnipresent God who permits the slaughter in GrossDeutschland, Soviet Union, Bosnia, Rwanda, etc., He is either sadistic as He was in the Old Testament or indifferent to violence. Maybe there is no such thing as an actual Tower of Babel, but needless to say there are invisible Babel Towers everywhere as testified by the ethnic conflicts, cultural confrontations, and ideological struggles. Since the beginning of civilizational clashes, people were used to kill each other, for food, resource, and most laughably, ideas. Whenever a war is orated in the name of peace, people will be driven to the pity naiveté of self-righteousness even by the slightest signs of external threats. The so-called Coalition of Willing and its ridiculous war in Iraq has illustrated to us in plain and harsh facts that even the mightiest and the most affluent have this sense of insecurity deeply engraved in their bones. We really have not changed too much from John Calvin and his Geneva. We now however have the means to kill each other off more effectively. With the doctrine of mutual assured destruction in place, we seem to treat nuclear annihilation a remote and unlikely event. Yet just a few decades ago the threat was as real as the greed of the Wall Street bankers; and no one shall be too comfortable with the Doomsday Clock only five minutes from the midnight. Let it be clear though, God did not create the savage nature of human, He did not make the society this way, we did. Let the story be told, after being pointed out his nudity in public by an innocent little boy, the Emperor was ashamed. So he compensated himself with wine and women, while the lifespan of an average peasant remained around 25 years. While we may already be struck down like Sodom and Gomorrah if not for the righteous Aung San Suu Kyis, it is the Emperors without their moral clothing that still rule the world. With all those irrational players in the game of international politics and world peace, a Nash Equilibrium is anything but likely. There are no enforceable rules in the realm of the Emperors regardless of the different types of ideologies they live with. History has already proved Francis Fukuyama and his "end of history" wrong. Samuel Huntington has maintained his luck so far, but just as the illusion of triumph of liberal democracy appeared sensible and clear to Fukuyama after the Berlin Wall fell, when the other wall fell, things may go into ways we least expect. I am speaking of, of course, the Great Fire Wall of China. After that, we still have the Tower of Babel to conquer, that is, if by then the Emperors have not yet press the big red button of doomsday. Nietzsche described us the übermensch, but since Nietzsche has killed God, we have to conquer the Tower of Babel on our own, and climb towards the distant and, hopefully, achievable destination set by Nietzsche. **Hero** It was the year 410, Alaric, the King of All, brought shame together with his Gothic army to the great city of Rome. Some disguised as priests and took refuge in the Christian churches. Alaric, the King of Visigoths, spared their lives for even the Germanic barbarians had respect for the people of St. Peter. After the Visigoths were gone, the very people who avoided their miserable fate by pretending to be Christians started to blame on the churches for the invasions. Augustine was angered by these disgraceful bastards. Augustine had not yet formulated the clear concept of separation of church and state, that was where he got the assumptions wrong, that was why he failed to distinguished between the enemies and allies, that was why even after a millennium, Montesquieu still felt the urge to refute him. Nevertheless he was right to blame the decadent blasphemers. The invincible Imperium was no more, not solely because of its declining military might, but also that the people forgot what being a citizen of the Roman Empire really meant. Civis Romanus sum was no longer something one could boast about. Year 410, the Empire was collapsing, yet the morally bankrupted still could not foresee the end. The Empire did not fell at the feet of its foes; it was consumed by its own people. The luxurious livings from the Emperor to the common men weakened their mind. The hot shower in the public bathroom made of Egyptian marble and Numidian granite reduced the Roman to mere slaves of indulgence. The corruption, treason, and greed turned the Roman officials to slaves of their own desire. All these, with the politically apathetic citizens who dwell in the world of indecent entertainment to escape from the self-blame of failure to pursue knowledge and to exercise their political and social responsibilities, transformed the Empire into a lover of worldliness, a coward. Those who did not learnt from the mistakes were doomed to follow Rome's path, to be consumed from their inside. We all seemed to forgot the ideas of Epicurus of Samos that a truly happy life should be devoid of shallow pleasure seeking, and the ultimate goal is to cultivate health, friendship, absence of fear of death, and wisdom. Throughout history, great people had tirelessly tried to remind the rest about the ancient wisdom. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. once so eloquently stated that "When machines and computers, profit motives and property rights are considered more important than people, the giant triplets of racism, militarism and economic exploitation are incapable of being conquered." If Dr. King lives to see the world today, he must be really saddened that people neglected his warnings and McDonaldization continued to prosper, leading the wagon train of consumerist culture into an abyss with no turning back. There are all types of bubble, the financial ones, the consumerist ones, and more importantly, the political ones. People were pushed by another Leviathan, one that is arguably even more powerful than that conceptualized by Hobbes into a bubble and they enjoyed it and hope they could make a profit out of it; but in the end, the bubble will burst, leaving the greedy and sinful helplessly waiting for a government bailout. They are selfless, in the most literal sense of the word. As long as Reaganomics lives on, financial bubbles will inevitably burst again; and in all likelihood, people will cry out for a government bailout, the very thing they abhor when they joyfully making a fool of themselves while inside the bubble. Yes, governments will bailout the rich and powerful but there is no spiritual bailout for anyone, so long as thy merciful God has not managed to grow an interest in human affairs. Even one day He does so, I doubt He will save these whores, the manipulators of human desires, be it commercially or otherwise. People are incapable of self-salvation and that is when Kierkegaard's humorist comes in for a rescue. The good thing is the humorist knows better than any ordinary folk, much like an actual extraordinary gentleman. The sad thing, however, is in the perspective of the humorist; the world does not need a salvation, at least not one that he is capable of. That is why while the world is a stage of comedy, the humorist is the sole audience; he knows better than any actor or actress acting without realizing the fact of acting. Yet in the end he could either continue to watch the play in silence or join the cast, and become a parody, a reflection of the world. Even Kierkegaard’s humorist cannot escape from Plato's cave. So people wait. They wait for the coming of Godot while continue their purposeless life. They see people come and go on the Desolation Row, and they wait. Whereas Hieronymus Bosch's Garden of Earthly Delights will makes itself clearer and clearer as the elucidation of the unbreakable cycle of the world. No one will grant us deliverance, neither Gods, nor Emperors, nor Heroes.
